README.md, before:

# Research et al. - Paper Talk Episode 4 - Building Foundation Models using BERT

This repository contains the code for the hands-on session of the paper talk on building foundation models using BERT.

## Setup

1. Fork and clone the repository
2. Create a virtual environment using conda (recommended) or venv and activate it. Then, install the dependencies using
   the following command:
    ```bash
    conda create -n bert python=3.8
    conda activate bert
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```
3. Set up HuggingFace code repository
    1. Visit [HuggingFace](https://huggingface.co/)'s website and create an account. Remember your username!
    2. Navigate to [Access Tokens](https://huggingface.co/settings/tokens) and generate a token with **write access**.
    3. Copy your username and token to `src/train_tokenizer.py` (L13, L15) and `src/train_model.py` (L10, L62)
4. Training on your data (optional) - a data directory consisting of exported chat history from the `PESU26`, `PESU27`
   and `Tech Talks` groups is provided in the `data` directory. If you wish to train on your own data, follow the steps
   below:
    1. Export your chat history from multiple WhatsApp groups. You can do this by opening the chat, clicking on the
       three dots in the top right corner and selecting `More > Export chat`. Select `Without Media` and export the
       chat history. Store all the `.txt` files in a directory.
    2. You need to now convert the `.txt` files into `.json` files which the trainer can use. To do this, run the
       following command:
        ```bash
        python src/whatsapp.py \
        --input <path to directory containing .txt files> \
        --output <path to output directory>
        ``` 
    3. You can now train the tokenizer on your data by running the following command. Modify L7
       in `src/train_tokenizer.py` to add the path to the newly generated `messages.json` file and then run the script.
        ```bash
        python src/train_tokenizer.py
        ```
       After running it, you should verify the two things:
        1. A new directory called `tokenizer` has been created in the current working directory.
        2. Visit `https://huggingface.co/<your_username>/tokenizer`. You should be able to see this repository that
           holds your new tokenizer
        3. Make sure to also push the changes to your forked repository.
5. Setup ngrok
    1. Create an account on [ngrok](https://ngrok.com/)
    2. Navigate to your [dashboard](https://dashboard.ngrok.com/get-started/setup) and copy your auth token. You can
       view your token in the `Connect your account` section.

## Training the Model

This will be covered in the session. If you wish to train the model beforehand, follow the steps below:

1. Push any changes to your forked repository
2. Visit this [Colab notebook](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1VV9icZiJoc1wb756-WO-hcIDqOEl5W-C?usp=sharing)
   and carry out the steps mentioned in the notebook. Make sure to choose a GPU runtime, run it cell by cell and replace the values of the
   tokens where mentioned. 
3. The notebook takes ~6 hours to run per epoch. It will automatically save the progress after every epoch.

Commit message:

Add inference steps to README

README.md, after:

# Research et al. - Paper Talk Episode 4 - Building Foundation Models using BERT

This repository contains the code for the hands-on session of the paper talk on building foundation models using BERT.

## Setup

1. Fork and clone the repository
2. Create a virtual environment using conda (recommended) or venv and activate it. Then, install the dependencies using
   the following command:
    ```bash
    conda create -n bert python=3.8
    conda activate bert
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```
3. Set up HuggingFace code repository
    1. Visit [HuggingFace](https://huggingface.co/)'s website and create an account. Remember your username!
    2. Navigate to [Access Tokens](https://huggingface.co/settings/tokens) and generate a token with **write access**.
    3. Copy your username and token to `src/train_tokenizer.py` (L13, L15) and `src/train_model.py` (L10, L62)
4. Training on your data (optional) - a data directory consisting of exported chat history from the `PESU26`, `PESU27`
   and `Tech Talks` groups is provided in the `data` directory. If you wish to train on your own data, follow the steps
   below:
    1. Export your chat history from multiple WhatsApp groups. You can do this by opening the chat, clicking on the
       three dots in the top right corner and selecting `More > Export chat`. Select `Without Media` and export the
       chat history. Store all the `.txt` files in a directory.
    2. You need to now convert the `.txt` files into `.json` files which the trainer can use. To do this, run the
       following command:
        ```bash
        python src/whatsapp.py \
        --input <path to directory containing .txt files> \
        --output <path to output directory>
        ``` 
    3. You can now train the tokenizer on your data by running the following command. Modify L7
       in `src/train_tokenizer.py` to add the path to the newly generated `messages.json` file and then run the script.
        ```bash
        python src/train_tokenizer.py
        ```
       After running it, you should verify the two things:
        1. A new directory called `tokenizer` has been created in the current working directory.
        2. Visit `https://huggingface.co/<your_username>/tokenizer`. You should be able to see this repository that
           holds your new tokenizer
        3. Make sure to also push the changes to your forked repository.
5. Setup ngrok
    1. Create an account on [ngrok](https://ngrok.com/)
    2. Navigate to your [dashboard](https://dashboard.ngrok.com/get-started/setup) and copy your auth token. You can
       view your token in the `2. Connect your account` section.

## Training the Model

This will be covered in the session. If you wish to train the model beforehand, follow the steps below:

1. Push any changes to your forked repository
2. Visit this [Colab notebook](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1VV9icZiJoc1wb756-WO-hcIDqOEl5W-C?usp=sharing)
   and carry out the steps mentioned in the notebook. Make sure to choose a GPU runtime, run it cell by cell and replace the values of the
   tokens where mentioned. 
3. The notebook takes ~6 hours to run per epoch. It will automatically save the progress after every epoch and upload the model to your HuggingFace repository.

## Running inference

This will be covered in the session. If you wish to run inference beforehand, follow the steps below:
1. Push any changes to your forked repository
2. Visit this [Colab notebook](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1Uz79EfPoieQER1dHUbA7kheZiAyxwwTi?usp=sharing) and carry out the steps mentioned in the notebook. Make sure to choose a GPU runtime, run it cell by cell and replace the values of the
   tokens where mentioned.

## Beyond the session

If you did not try training your own model, it is highly recommended you do so! You can also try out some other fine-tuning tasks like:
1. Given a message, predict the group, sender and recipient
2. Perform clustering on the messages and find similar ones
